# Citation-Sentiment-Analysis
_"Sentiments behind citations: Tracking the need, current work and future directions of Citation Sentiment Analysis."_

This is a study of the importance of sentiment analysis for qualitative evaluation of Citations. With my colleague, published this survey paper in the SIET conference, 2016 in Indonesia. We took this as an independent project in our Undergraduation, and also extended it for minor project. Here's a copy with its ppt attached too. Hope it interests you. Have fun reading! 

**Conference Details:**

Proceedings of SIET (Page 58-62), ISSN: 2541-1861
17th-18th October 2016, 1st conference of Sustainable Information Engineering and Technology (SIET), Brawijaya University, Indonesia

**Quick Overview:**

For a very long time, the basic routine to study the citations is to count the number of citations received. This number is referred to as the Citation Count, and is objectively appropriate. Let us take an example- When we access social media websites, say, Facebook, for example, we validate the popularity of a post or a page or even a real person by the number of likes and shares it gets. The same logic applies for a research paper, a scholarly article, a journal and even an author himself. Counting the number of citations received by them is what validates the usefulness of their studies. The impact they have on the research domain is fairly gauged by studying their citation count. Citation analysis has been dependent only on the frequency of citations. Even though it seems simple and fair, it does have some drawbacks. Citation count gives a fair idea about the popularity of the paper, it is essential to note that citations could also be made to highlight the imperfection or infirmities. With time, researchers realized that citation count may give us a fair idea about the popularity of the paper, but cannot accurately deliver the impact of one’s research work. They realized that the _context_ behind making a citation is equally important to study the impact and therefore, should also be considered. Whether the citation has been made to appreciate the prior work, or it just criticizes it. Or is it just made out of respect? Has the citation being made as an improvement to some previous work or just mentioned for existing objective facts. To bring out the answers to such questions and many more, study of the _intention_ by which a citation has been made became as important as determining the citation count. A human reader can effortlessly identify why a citation has been made, but for an automated system this process is not as easy and intuitive. The solution to this problem is what CSA provides.  Citation Sentiment Analysis is an emerging discipline which can render a novel perspective to study of citations. It can create major changes in fields like citation analysis and bibliometrics. All studies that have conducted indeed proved one fact- that if enough attention and effort invested the concept of Sentiment analysis of citations, it will reshape the world of bibliometrics.

